We are going to actually start
saving this information, so
we're going to start handling Notion.
So this is a Notion database.
The way that this works is
that it's got a whole bunch of
cool features for
managing and sharing data.
You can do different views and everything.
What we are gonna use it for is just
this kinda limited set of, we want items
that have a few details in them,
who submitted it, what the status is,
what the spice level is, and
we wanna show those in a progress board.
So to do in progress and complete.
This is set up to be sharable, and
what we're going to do then is
we need to create a Notion app.
So we need an app here so that we can
read and write from this database.
So to do that,
we go to notion.com/my-integrations,
and this allows you to create integration.
So as we did before, I'm gonna delete
this one and we'll start from scratch.
First, we're gonna choose
the right workspace.
We are going to use the, I created
one called Frontend Masters ChatOps.
If you created a new workspace,
make sure you actually select that.
Then we are gonna call it Food Fight.
And then we will run this
image command here, or
we will use the image
from the starter repo.
Submit, and then next,
we wanna go to capabilities and
make sure that our bot can do all
the things that it needs to do.
So we're gonna make sure that it can read,
update, and insert content.
These are the only pieces
we really care about.
We're not gonna be doing
anything comments, and again,
we're not gonna be trying to sync
users based on email or anything, so
we don't need any user information.
That is always something you can add
later, so feel free to kinda go with
the minimum set of permissions to start,
so we can save that.
And now when we go over here and
refresh the page,
and up in the top right,
there's this context menu.
Click that, go to Add connections,
and search for your connection.
There it is, and it's gonna have
access to this and all child pages.
We wanna be able to manage this database,
so that's what we want, so we can confirm.
Now we need to get our Notion credentials
into the environment variables.
So to do that, we're going to
head into our integrations again,
get our secrets, and this is going to,
I'm gonna copy this and
go back into my code here.
And we'll open up the .env and
we're gonna add a new one called
NOTION_SECRET and drop that in there.
And then we also are gonna
need the NOTION_DATABASE_ID.
And the way that these work is that if you
look at the URL of your, make this bigger.
If you look at the URL of a database,
it's gonna have two hashy-looking numbers.
The first one here,
that's your database ID.
And then this query string here,
v, that's not the piece you need.
So just copy this, and
then you can head back into your .env and
put that in, save it, and close it.
So then what I'm gonna do is stop and
restart this again.
Because we've changed the environment, so
we need to make sure that all of our
environment variables are being loaded.
That gives us a new hash for the live,
so I'm gonna go update that in Slack.
And that has to be updated
in two places now.
So we're gonna update this one and save.
And then we're gonna go into our
slash commands, edit the food fight,
And change that one and save.
So now when we make calls to
the Notion API, they're going to have
the proper permissions,
we're gonna be able to do that.
And because we changed our local dev,
that changes the hash,
we have to update those URLs.
Next up, we are going to create
a Notion helper function.
And this is gonna be very similar to
the Slack utils that we put together.
In this case, it will be for Notion.
So this src > util > notion
is already stubbed out, so
you can just open up that file and
we will put everything in here.
And this one is going to export
async function notionApi.
And that's gonna have an endpoint,
and that's gonna be a string.
And then it's gonna have a body, and
that's gonna be an object by default.
Next, we're gonna set up our response
that's going to await a fetch call.
And that goes to https,
api.notion.com is the base,
and then /v1 for
the version of the API that
we're using, and
then we pass in the endpoint.
It's going to be sent as a post,
and then we've got some headers.
The headers that we need to include are an
accept header so that we get back JSON.
Then we wanna set up our authorization,
and
that is also going to be a bearer
token just like we did with Slack,
except this time we're using
process.env.NOTION_SECRET.
Then we want the Notion version.
This is a required header from Notion
to let us know what version of
API we're requesting.
The latest, I believe,
that they show is this 22-06-28.
And finally, we're gonna send the content
type to let Notion know that we
are sending in JSON as well,
so application/json.
And the body will be stringified JSON.
And if something goes wrong,
we'll just catch that and
throw it out to console.error.
Otherwise, we're gonna check if
there's no res or res.ok is false,
then we're gonna console.log the error
as well, or the whole response.
And finally, we'll grab that data and
await res.json.
And we're just gonna,
because it might be undefined,
we'll do one of these,
then we're gonna return our data.
So this is how we will get
data out of Notion, and
this gives us the ability to send and
receive data, so
we'll be able to create new entries as
well as reading data from the databases.